♪ [music] ♪
Now, we need to take a look at our Store
Schema here and talk about some custom
data types. Why? Because what types do we
have so far? A string,
a string, a string, and an array of
strings. So it's important to note that
there are many, many types of data that
could be stored in a MongoDB database,
and it's really important to before you
actually start storing data,
to figure out how your data should be
stored. So let's say, example,
for a date. When we want to store when a
store was created... We want to store when
a store was created, so let's make a
"created" property. The type is not going
to be a string. It's not going to be a
number. It's going to be a date.
Right? Because that is a real date, and
what that will allow us to do is to do
complex queries in the future, where users
search for things in a specific month or
between these two dates, or are greater
than the following date.
MongoDB has a whole bunch of custom
queries for dealing with dates,
and if you store it as a date, then you
will be able to take advantage of those.
When I did one on my projects, I just
stored it as a timestamp,
because I thought I was a badass, and I
stored everything as a Unix timestamp.
But I realized that it's much better to
store it as a real date,
so you can take advantage of all the
custom queries with MongoDB.
Now, the default of "date" is just going
to be "date.now". What that will mean is
when you create a store, it will just
simply set the "created" property to be
whatever "date.now". If you've never used
"date.now", it's pretty sweet.
It's a static method on "date" and it will
just tell you what the current time is in
milliseconds since God created the Earth.
So now, MongoDB, as well as having stuff
built in for numbers and times, and
strings, it also has a huge feature set
for dealing specifically with stuff that
is location-based. So it will allow you to
search based on the coordinates for things
that are within a couple kilometers or a
couple miles. Or it will allow you to
search for stores that are within the
following bounds, or within a province or
a state, wherever it is that you're
living. So that's pretty cool, because you
can do these really complex queries and
not have to do any of the math or any of
the hard query lookups behind it,
because it's all built into MongoDB. So
we're going to make a "location" property
here, and that's going to be an object.
Now, there are many ways of storing data,
and the way that we're going to be doing
it is storing it as a point,
which is just going to be a pin on a map,
because you could also store a custom
location. Maybe if you're outlining a
state, or maybe you're outlining a block
or a couple streets, that would be
multiple points. But in our case,
we just have a latitude and longitude and
that's where I'm going to drop the pin on
the map. So we'll say "type", and the type
itself has to be a little bit weird,
because it is technically a string. So you
say, "type: String," but you say "default"
is going to be a point. This seems a
little weird. It took me a while to figure
this out. But you have a "type" property,
which is the object,
which has a type of "string" and a default
of "point". Now, we have a couple of sort
of sub-properties that will live inside of
"location" that make up a point.
So we have "coordinates", and the
"coordinates" is going to be an array of
lng and lat. If that sounds backwards,
it's because it is. So that is going to be
an array, and each item in the coordinates
is going to be an object.
So maybe I'll put this like this. The
coordinates are a type of "number",
because our coordinates look something
like 43.whatever, and then negative
131.whatever. So those two values, lat and
lng, those are going to be numbers,
so type of "numbers". "Required" is going
to be "true", or as we learned earlier,
"You must supply coordinates!" Then, we
also need an address, because lat and lng
are not all that useful to a user. It's
helpful for a map, but we also want to
store the physical address of the
location. So that is going to be a type of
"string" and "required" is, "You must
supply an address!" Good.
So I think we've got that now. So I have a
"location" property that has a type of
"string", which the default is the point.
It has a "coordinates",
which is going to be an array of numbers,
and it has an address,
which is going to be a string and both of
those are required. Good.
Now, the next step is we need to edit our
Edit screen here, in order to accept a
lat, a lng, and an address. So let's go
back to our "storeForm".
Oh, before we go to "storeForm", make sure
you take the quotes off the string.
Why? Because it is a type of "string".
That's a built-in JavaScript type,
not quote "string", so make sure you take
that off. Now, we'll go over to our
"storeForm" and start creating an
interface. We're actually adding our
address and our coordinates. So we'll go
to our "storeForm" here,
and let's do a little comment. That's how
you comment in Pug, "//-" and we'll just
say, "address, lat and lng", or let's do
"lng and lat". We'll talk about that in
just a second. So we need a label for
"address". Give ourselves an input with
the type of "text", the ID of "address",
and the name of "location[address]".
Now, if you've never seen this syntax
before, what is actually happening,
if we open up our App.js and scroll down
to "app.use", see this,
"(bodyParser.urlencoded({ extended: true
}))? What that "extended: true" does is it
allows us to use inputs that sort of have
nested data in them.
Meaning that this is going to come as
"location.address", because we need
"location.address" as nested data. So by
putting "[]" and then the name of the
sub-property, that will allow us to send
nested data without having to do any extra
heavy lifting, either on the client side
before we send it, or on the server side
as we receive that data. It's pretty neat.
I really like that feature of Express.
So we have our name of "address", and
let's actually just try that for now.
We have to add a new one, because there's
a little bit we need to do to edit them.
So we'll go to Add and say, "New Store",
say, "Good eats", and then we'll add an
address of 123... Oh, I forgot to add the
x for our label. 123 Fake Street and add a
couple. So give it a save, and [it'll]
say, "Successfully created New Store.
Care to leave a review?" Obviously, we
can't see it yet, but we'll go back here,
we'll go to New Store, and edit it. How
come address isn't filled out?
Well, that's because we need to set the
value of this to be
"store.location.address". Give that a save
and refresh. Hey, hey.
Now, Fake Street is showing up. But I need
to tell you something.
You know when you have
"store.location.address"? What if
"location" doesn't exist, and you try to
read a property of something that is not
an object or does not exist. It's going to
tell you, "Cannot read property address of
undefined," because "location" is
undefined. So that's going to be a bit of
a problem for when we go to add a new one,
right now. See, we get this error here?
"Cannot read property address of
undefined." Why is that? Because we don't
have an address yet. So in this case, what
we need to do is to take this value and to
wrap it in some parentheses. We'll say,
"store.location &&
store.location.address". What that will do
is it will first check if "store.location"
exists. If it does, it will go and return
the second thing. If "store.loation" does
not exist, it will just return "false", or
it won't return anything and the value
will be empty. So that's a nice little way
that we can do sort of a check for that
property first, and you can see that it
doesn't error out. But if we were to go to
one of our properties here, maybe we'll go
back to Bakery and add in an address,
"455 Fake Street", save, you see that the
Fake Street is there.
If I refresh, the data will always be
coming back. Good. Now, let's do the lng
and the lat. So we'll go underneath that
and we'll say, "label(for="lng")",
longitude. We'll say, "Address LNG". Then,
we'll have an input with the type of
"number". Actually, it should just be type
of "text", because we don't need the...
The interface for input type of "number"
will give us the arrows.
Why would you ever pick an address with up
and down arrows? Then,
the ID is going to be "lng" and the name
is going to be, "location[coordinates]".
If we look back at our store,
"coordinates" is an array and the
longitude needs to be the first thing. So
I have always done it where it's lat and
lng, meaning that lat comes first and lng
comes second. But upon wasting several
hours on building this project, I realized
that there is this whole other world of
people who build it with lng first and
then lat. So absolutely,
100%, make sure that your lng comes first
and your latitude comes second in this
array. That's just the way that MongoDB
expects the data to be stored.
If you do it the opposite, you're either
going to end up in Australia,
or if you're Australian and you come to
Canada, or wherever the [inaudible]
of the Earth is. Or it will give
you errors, being like that,
"That's not a correct latitude and
longitude." So triple-check it's lng,
then lat. Then, we'll just duplicate this
and I'll swap out that for lat,
lat, and the second value, which is going
to be one, because it's zero-based.
Good. Oh, that should be lat as well.
Let's try giving ourselves some values
here. So 127 and negative 43. Give that a
save. The values aren't here,
but that's because we haven't actually put
them back into it. So let's try a quick
dump of our values again, "pre=
h.dump(store)". Let's see if they're
actually even getting stored before we try
to display them. There we go,
coordinates, 127, negative 43. So what we
need to do is go to here and say,
"The value equals," and we'll do another
one of these, lng. "Store.location &&
store.location.coordinates", the first
one. Then, we can just take that whole
thing and dip it over for the second one.
Now, when I refresh,
see how our lng and our lat have values?
If I change that to one and give it a
save, it will be able to update those
values for us no problem.
Other things we want to do here is add a
"required" attribute onto it,
just so you get some client side
validation, making sure that somebody puts
it in.but you'll notice that if we
actually delete "address" and give it a
save, we get an error that says, "You must
supply an address!" Well,
why is that happening? Well, our store
requires an address, which if you do not
give it a string with an address in it, it
says, "You must supply an address!" What's
happening here is that when we go to our
Store controller and we go to Create
Store, you notice that we're not handling
that error anywhere.
But what is happening, because we are
using async/await, and because we're using
that error handler, what happens is that
this, "await store.save",
that will fail, because our validation
does not pass. What will happen is that...
Let's look at our error handlers again.
Our handlers, we'll call them "next",
and what does "next" do? "Next" will go
into our App.js and we'll go to our
routes, here we go, and if it does not
work, it'll say, "All right.
Next." Then, it will go down the chain of
events. What actually happens is that we
have this flash validation error handler,
where now that we know all about flashes,
we can sort of help with them. We say, "If
there is no errors,
return next error." What that means is
that, [inaudible] put a comment
there, "If there are no errors to show for
flashes, skip it." What that will do is
it'll just pass on the error to the stack
trace. But if there is actually an error
message that we have, in our case, we're
going to check if the error has some
errors on it, then we're just going to
flash them. Because the model that we're
using here will actually pass us an error
message. If we have a good error message
from this, we don't need to show a stack
trace, because it didn't break.
It's just a validation error. The error
handler, for each of the possible errors,
it will flash that error and show it on
the page, and then it will call
"res.redirect(`back`)". That will just
redirect us to the page that we were on
previously, and it will not have actually
updated. So that's really nice.
You just have to have this once in your
application and you don't have to worry
about it, because the errors are still
going to filter through the different
levels that we have there. So I'm not
going to save anything there.
If we were to change this to "123 Fake
Street," give it a save,
it does work properly, and we get our
"Success" message here. Good.
Let's go back to our "storeForm" here.
Let's get rid of that dump.
Now, let's actually hook up to Google Maps
so that when you type into here,
these lng and lat are actually going to
populate with real values,
rather than us having to work with the
existing ones that we have.
♪ [music] ♪